OCPBUGS-88466: Updated rhcos-add-extensions.adoc to add a service exa… (#113328)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rhcos-add-extensions.adoc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **usbguard**: The `usbguard` extension protects {op-system} systems from attacks by intrusive USB devices. For `usbguard`, you must create additional `MachineConfig` objects to start and enable those services as described in the following procedure. For more information on USBGuard, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html-single/security_hardening/index#usbguard_protecting-systems-against-intrusive-usb-devices[USBGuard] for details.
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* **kernel-devel**: The `kernel-devel` extension provides kernel headers and makefiles sufficient to build modules against the kernel package.

> The following procedure describes how to use a machine config to add one or more extensions to your {op-system} nodes. For extensions that include services, such as `usbguard`, you must create additional `MachineConfig` objects to start and enable those services.

Reviewer: I am not sure this is true. 
```suggestion
The following procedure describes how to use a machine config to add one or more extensions to your {op-system} nodes. 
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

.Procedure

> . Create a Butane configuration file named `80-worker-usbguard-complete.bu` to add the extension, manage the configuration files, and enable the service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create a Butane configuration file named `80-worker-usbguard.bu` to add the extension, manage the configuration files, and enable the service.
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

+
[NOTE]
====

> The `usbguard` RPM package includes its own native systemd service unit file, so you do not need to ensure the service is enabled (`enabled: true`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `usbguard` RPM package includes its own native systemd service unit file, so you only need to ensure the service is enabled (`enabled: true`).
```

Reviewer 2: But I think we can even drop this note.

Author: Thanks. I'll remove the note if it causes confusion:

[NOTE]
====
The `usbguard` RPM package includes its own native systemd service unit file, so you only need to ensure the service is enabled (`enabled: true`).
====

> The `usbguard` RPM package includes its own native systemd unit file, so you do not need to define `[Unit]`, `[Service]`, and `[Install]` blocks in your configuration. You only need to ensure the service is enabled (`enabled: true`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `usbguard` RPM package includes its own systemd service unit file, so you only need to ensure the service is enabled (`enabled: true`).
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

====
+
[source,yaml]
----
variant: openshift

> version: 4.22.0

Reviewer 2: There is an attribute/variabe used in this repo to not have the version hardcoded

Author: Good observation. Updated!

metadata:
  name: 80-worker-usbguard-complete
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
extensions:
  - usbguard
storage:
  files:
    - path: /etc/usbguard/usbguard-daemon.conf
      mode: 0600
      overwrite: true
      contents:
        inline: |
          RuleFile=/etc/usbguard/rules.conf
          PresentDevicePolicy=apply-policy
          IPCAllowedGroups=wheel
    - path: /etc/usbguard/rules.conf
      mode: 0600
      overwrite: false
      contents:
        inline: |
          allow id 1d6b:0002 serial "0000:00:14.0" name "EHCI Host Controller"
systemd:
  units:
    - name: usbguard.service
      enabled: true
----

. Convert the Butane configuration into a `MachineConfig` manifest by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ butane 80-worker-usbguard-complete.bu -o 80-worker-usbguard-complete.yaml
----

> . Apply the single merged `MachineConfig` to the cluster by entering the following command: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Apply the  `MachineConfig` to the cluster by entering the following command: 
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc apply -f 80-worker-usbguard-complete.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ oc apply -f 80-worker-usbguard.yaml
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----
+

> This sets all compute nodes to install the `usbguard` RPM package, write the required configuration files, and enable the systemd daemon within a single node rollout cycle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This sets all worker nodes to install the `usbguard` RPM package, write the required configuration files, and enable the systemd daemon within a single node rollout cycle.
```

.Verification

. Check that the new machine config was successfully created in the cluster by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get machineconfig 80-worker-usbguard-complete

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ oc get machineconfig 80-worker-usbguard
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                          GENERATEDBYCONTROLLER IGNITIONVERSION AGE

> 80-worker-usbguard-complete                         3.5.0           57s

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
80-worker-usbguard                         3.5.0           57s
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

          RuleFile=/etc/usbguard/rules.conf
          PresentDevicePolicy=apply-policy
          IPCAllowedGroups=wheel
    - path: /etc/usbguard/rules.conf
      mode: 0600
      overwrite: false
      contents:
        inline: |
          allow id 1d6b:0002 serial "0000:00:14.0" name "EHCI Host Controller"
systemd:
  units:
    - name: usbguard.service
      enabled: true
----

. Convert the Butane configuration into a `MachineConfig` manifest by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ butane 80-worker-usbguard.bu -o 80-worker-usbguard.yaml
----

. Apply the `MachineConfig` to the cluster by entering the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f 80-worker-usbguard.yaml
----
+
This sets all compute nodes to install the `usbguard` RPM package, write the required configuration files, and enable the systemd daemon within a single node rollout cycle.

.Verification

. Check that the new machine config was successfully created by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machineconfig 80-worker-usbguard
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                          GENERATEDBYCONTROLLER IGNITIONVERSION AGE

> 80-worker-usbguard                                 3.5.0           57s

Reviewer 3: this is a nit but check the preview - the alignment is slightly off between these rows now. 
```suggestion
NAME                          GENERATEDBYCONTROLLER IGNITIONVERSION AGE
80-worker-usbguard                                  3.5.0           57s
```

Reviewer 3: Also is adding several spaces between the first column and the rest intentional? The approximate spacing looked fine before, but maybe I am missing something

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.5.0

>     extensions:

Reviewer: Is this needed? I was able to install usbguard by using the example in the docs (without these spaces).

Author: Hi, @mburke5678 . I'm unsure. I do not have the environment set up. I was hoping a dev engineer or QE could provide insight here. Do you have specific folks in mind?

Reviewer: I do not have specific folks. I believe it is team CoreOS, of which I am a new member. I chatted with @travier about this issue briefly yesterday.

Reviewer 2: According to https://docs.okd.io/latest/rest_api/machine_apis/machineconfig-machineconfiguration-openshift-io-v1.html, the `extensions` key should be at the same level as the `config` one.

    - usbguard
EOF
----

> . Create an additional machine config for extension services and configure the file similar to the following example:

Reviewer: Need to emphasize that this example works for `usbguard` only.
```suggestion
. For `usbguard`, create an additional machine config for extension services and configure the file similar to the following example:
```

> . For `usbguard`, create an additional machine config for extension services and configure the file similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. For `usbguard`, create an additional machine config to enable the usbguard service from the extension and configure it using the following example:
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
  name: 80-worker-usbguard-complete
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.5.0
    storage:
      files:
        - contents:
            source: '<source_path>'
          mode: 384
          overwrite: true
          path: /etc/usbguard/usbguard-daemon.conf
        - contents:
            source: '<source_path>'
          mode: 384
          overwrite: false
          path: /etc/usbguard/rules.conf
    systemd:
      units:
        - contents: |
            [Unit]
            Description=USBGuard daemon
            After=network.target

            [Service]

            PIDFile=/run/usbguard.pid
            # Reset ExecStart to clear the RPM default
            ExecStart=
            # Start in foreground (-f) with persistent policy (-P)
            ExecStart=/usr/sbin/usbguard-daemon -f -P -c /etc/usbguard/usbguard-daemon.conf
            # Force Type to simple so systemd doesn't wait for a fork
            Type=forking
            Restart=on-failure

            [Install]
            WantedBy=multi-user.target          

          enabled: true

>           name: usbguard.service

Reviewer 2: This looks weird to me. I'm relatively sure that the usbguard extension/RPM already ships a systemd unit so we don't need to re-define one here.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> ----

Reviewer 2: This Machine Config example is complex enough that this should be a Butane config instead, that is converted in a Machine Config using Butane. There are other examples in the docs that do that.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

. Apply the `MachineConfig` to start the extension by entering the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f 80-extensions.yaml
----
+
This sets all compute nodes to have RPM packages for `usbguard` installed.

. Apply the `MachineConfig` to start the service by entering the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc apply -f 80-worker-usbguard-complete.yaml

Reviewer 2: We can probably merge the two machine configs into a single one to avoid a reboot & rollout.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

worker rendered-worker-d8 False   True     False    3            1                 1                   0                    34m
----

> . After the pool reports `UPDATED` as `True`, verify that the extension package was installed and that the service is running normally by debugging a compute node:

Reviewer 3: Maybe a separate sentence for running a command can keep this content but also satisfy the rule to explicitly prompt users to run commands:

```suggestion
. After the pool reports `UPDATED` as `True`, verify that the extension package was installed and that the service is running normally by debugging a compute node. Run the following commands:
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
...
To use host binaries, run `chroot /host`
sh-4.4# chroot /host
sh-4.4# rpm -q usbguard
usbguard-0.7.4-4.el8.x86_64.rpm
...
sh-4.4# systemctl status usbguard.service
usbguard.service - USBGuard daemon

>         Loaded: loaded (/etc/systemd/system/usbguard.service; enabled; preset: disabled)

Reviewer 2: Likely but I have not checked:
```suggestion
        Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/usbguard.service; enabled; preset: disabled)
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/<ip-10-0-169-2.us-east-2.compute.internal>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
...
To use host binaries, run `chroot /host`
sh-4.4# chroot /host
sh-4.4# rpm -q usbguard
usbguard-0.7.4-4.el8.x86_64.rpm

> ...

Reviewer 2: Missing command here:
```
systemctl status usbguard.service
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:
